Changes for Gateway 3.8.1 release (#719)
conduktor/conduktor-docs: src/pages/changelog/Gateway-3.8.1.md

---
date: 2025-04-18
title: Gateway 3.8.1
description: docker pull conduktor/conduktor-gateway:3.8.1
solutions: gateway
tags: fixes
---

*Release date: {frontMatter.date.toISOString().slice(0, 10)}*

- [Conduktor Shield](#conduktor-shield)
   - [Optional compression before encryption when using full payload encryption](#optional-compression-before-encryption-when-using-full-payload-encryption)
- [Bug fixes](#bug-fixes)

### Conduktor Shield

#### Optional compression before encryption when using full payload encryption

> Kafka supports compression out of the box, but with limited effect when the data is already encrypted. In order to improve performance in its encryption interceptor Gateway now supports compressing full payload data before it is encrypted.

Reviewer: s/improve performance/reduce disk usage?

Author: 🤔 not really about disk usage. I'm gonna change it to _this_. @RG-conduktor welcome to weigh in.

> This new functionality is not enabled by default. You can enable it by setting the new `compressionType` entry in the encryption interceptor configuration to one of 'gzip', 'snappy', 'lz4' or 'zstd'. If full payload encryption is configured for headers, record keys or record values the respective data will now be compressed before it is encrypted.

Reviewer: never realized it was applied to headers too...

Author: everyone always forgets the headers! :)

[Find out more about encryption configuration](https://docs.conduktor.io/gateway/interceptors/data-security/encryption/encryption-configuration/#encryption-configuration---how-to-encrypt)

### Bug fixes

> - Fixed a problem with the alter topic policy interceptor where the all un-provided configurations were being blocked/overriden instead of only DELETE.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- When using the alter topic policy interceptor, allow updating only a subset of the enforced configurations.
```
